<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="2.1.8 Promptness and Reliability" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_3_1.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_3_1_8" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>2.1.8 Promptness and Reliability</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_3_1_8">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">2.1.8 Promptness and Reliability</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Imagine that you are a member of a three-person team that is laying pipe. According to the schedule, you must lay a certain
               amount of pipe in two weeks. If a member of your team were absent the whole time, you and the other team member would have
               to do that person’s work in addition to your own, which means that each of you would have to do 50 percent more work than
               anticipated over the two-week period. However, if your teammate notified your supervisor, then arrangements could be made
               to provide another worker or to extend the completion date of the pipe-laying task.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Professionals are always prompt and reliable when they report to work. A prompt employee shows up to work on time; a reliable
               worker shows up every day. Employees who are chronically late or absent have poor work habits. They are being unprofessional
               and are showing that they lack commitment.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">The clock governs your work life. Everyone is required to be at work and ready to start at a definite time. Failure to get
               to work on time results in confusion, lost time, and the resentment of your teammates. The good news, however, is that bad
               habits can be changed. If you are chronically late for work, then change your morning routine to leave earlier or get up earlier
               to take care of your personal responsibilities.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Sometimes you need to take time off from work because you or a family member are sick, you have suffered a death in your family,
               or you might get stuck in a traffic jam or have car trouble. When something like this happens, let your employer or sponsor
               know as soon as possible so that your supervisor can make arrangements to replace you while you are out.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Your employer or sponsor has the right to expect you to be on the job unless you have a good reason. You have an obligation
               to your supervisor and your teammates to be at your job because they are relying on you. Indeed, you should be proud of this;
               it means that they trust you and respect you. When you fulfill that obligation, you will be trusted by your co-workers and
               valued by your supervisor.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>