<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="1.1.3 Plumbing in the Twentieth Century" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_2_1.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_2_1_3" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>1.1.3 Plumbing in the Twentieth Century</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_2_1_3">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">1.1.3 Plumbing in the Twentieth Century</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Sanitation, along with medical science, continues to be largely responsible for the maintenance of public health. In the United
               States, great progress in the development of plumbing methods and technologies has been made since 1910. The reliability of
               traditional piping materials, such as copper and cast iron, has been dramatically improved. A new plastic compound called
               <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__thermoplastic"><dfn class="term">thermoplastic</dfn></a> (which is soft and pliable when heated) and <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__thermoset"><dfn class="term">thermoset</dfn></a> (which becomes solid when heated) have been developed. The physical properties of these plastics make them ideal for use
               in sanitary systems. <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__polyvinyl_chloride_pvc"><dfn class="term">Polyvinyl chloride (PVC)</dfn></a>, developed in the 1930s, was the first plastic used in plumbing. PVC is a rigid pipe with high-impact strength that is manufactured
               from a thermoplastic material. The material has an indefinite life span under most conditions. Plumbers frequently use PVC
               in cold water systems. Manufacturers have also improved plumbing <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__fixtures"><dfn class="term">fixtures</dfn></a>, which are devices that receive water from a water supply line. Common fixtures include sinks, faucets, shower stalls, and
               toilets.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">In 1911, the Kohler Company developed the first one-piece recessed bath. Before this, baths had been built in two separate
               sections: the tub itself and the surrounding apron. Kohler’s one-piece tub was much more sanitary and attractive. In 1926,
               Kohler introduced the electric sink, a combination of a conventional sink and electric dishwasher.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Other inventors established companies whose names are familiar to today’s plumbers. Al Moen, who held more than 75 patents,
               invented the single-handle mixing faucet. In 1906, William Sloan developed a flush valve in which water flows under pressure
               from the supply pipe directly to the fixture, so that it is always ready to be used. Halsey W. Taylor established the company
               that bears his name in 1912 to manufacture and sell hygienic drinking fountains.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>