<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="1.1.2 A New Professional Organization" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_2_1.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_2_1_2" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>1.1.2 A New Professional Organization</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_2_1_2">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">1.1.2 A New Professional Organization</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">By the late nineteenth century, plumbing technology and practices were recognizably modern. Manufacturers and wholesale dealers
               of new plumbing devices sold them over the counter as separate components. They ignored the fact that these components would
               have to be combined and installed into a properly designed plumbing system in order to work. Dealers claimed no responsibility
               for the proper installation of plumbing systems. The results were predictable. People suffered from shoddy and unsafe plumbing
               systems that possibly made sanitary conditions worse instead of better. And plumbers were usually blamed—unfairly—when things
               went wrong. Plumbers had the knowledge and ability to install safe and efficient plumbing systems, but the manufacturers and
               dealers completely dominated the trade.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Accordingly, at the association’s second annual convention in Baltimore in 1884, the attendees adopted a set of professional
               guidelines that became famous as the Baltimore Resolutions. The resolutions succeeded at last in putting plumbers in charge
               of the profession. They helped ensure that plumbing installations in the United States would be safe and sanitary, and that
               plumbers would be held to rigorous professional standards.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>