<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2020" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="1.2.4 The Three Phases of a Plumbing Project" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_2_2.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_2_2_4" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>1.2.4 The Three Phases of a Plumbing Project</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_2_2_4">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">1.2.4 The Three Phases of a Plumbing Project</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Plumbing can be divided into three broad phases:</p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">
                  <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__underground_rough-in"><dfn class="term">Underground rough-in</dfn></a>
                  
               </p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">
                  <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__aboveground_rough-in"><dfn class="term">Aboveground rough-in</dfn></a> (also called <em class="ph i">top-out</em>, <em class="ph i">stack-out</em>, or <em class="ph i">in-wall rough-in</em>)
               </p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">
                  <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__finish"><dfn class="term">Finish</dfn></a> (also called <em class="ph i">trim-out</em> or <em class="ph i">trim finish</em>)
               </p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">During the underground rough-in phase, the plumber locates all supply and waste connections from the building systems to public
               utilities and establishes where these systems enter or leave the building. During the aboveground rough-in phase, the plumber
               cuts holes in walls, ceilings, or floors to attach or hang pipe for connection to fixtures. Then the plumber installs the
               pipe for the building’s various supply and waste systems. To join pipe runs, a plumber might use welding tools, soldering
               equipment, or special chemicals for plastic pipe. The plumber may operate power threading machines, propane torches, and other
               power tools during this phase.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="note note">
            
            <p class="p">Note</p>
            
            <p class="p">Many plumbing terms are used interchangeably in some areas. Be sure you are using the terms the way they are typically used
               where you work.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Finally, in the finish phase, the plumber installs fixtures such as sinks, showers, and toilets, and appliances such as dishwashers,
               water purification systems, and water heaters. The plumber may be called upon to install the automatic controls that regulate
               pressurized pipe systems as well.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">During each of the three stages, you must ensure that the system is tight and safe. Do not let your customers discover leaks
               behind the walls after you have completed your work. Callbacks are expensive and can hurt your reputation as a professional.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Regardless of how well a plumbing system is installed, it must be maintained and periodically repaired. You could even think
               of service and maintenance as a fourth phase of a plumbing project. Plumbers perform a variety of tasks as part of service
               and maintenance, including the following:
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Checking lubrication levels in pumps, test gauges, and meters</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Repairing faulty fixtures and components</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Verifying operating systems</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Regulating flow and usage rates</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Additionally, plumbers must ensure that the drain, waste, and vent (DWV) system for each project is installed and working
               properly. DWV systems, which are discussed in greater depth later, are essential to protect public safety.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>