<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="2.2.3 Apprenticeship Standards" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_3_2.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_3_2_3" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>2.2.3 Apprenticeship Standards</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_3_2_3">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">2.2.3 Apprenticeship Standards</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">All apprenticeship standards call for certain work-related training, or OJL. OJL is broken down into specific tasks in which
               the apprentice receives hands-on training. Each task requires a specified number of hours. The total number of hours in a
               plumbing apprenticeship is traditionally 8,000, which amounts to four years of training. In a competency-based program, this
               time may be shortened by testing out of specific tasks through a series of performance exams.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">In a traditional program, you may complete the required OJL at the rate of 2,000 hours per year. If you are laid off or get
               sick, it may take longer.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Sponsors need to receive, log in, and report an apprentice’s time records, and have them reviewed by the federal government
               and/or the state apprenticeship program. Therefore, apprentices should keep accurate and up-to-date time records; after the
               first 144 classroom hours and 1,000 hours of related work, and then for each subsequent 1,000 hours, the standards entitle
               an apprentice to a pay increase.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Apprentices may not always receive classroom instruction and OJL at the same time. Apprentices with special job experience
               or other coursework may obtain credit toward their classroom requirements. This reduces the time they are required to spend
               in the classroom while meeting the 8,000-hour OJL requirement. These special cases depend on the type of program and its regulations
               and standards.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">For those entering an apprenticeship program, a high school or technical school education is desirable, with courses in plumbing,
               shop, mechanical drawing, and general mathematics. Manual dexterity, good physical condition, and a good sense of balance
               are important. It is essential to be able to solve math problems quickly and accurately and to work closely with others.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">If you want to become an apprentice, you must submit to the Apprenticeship Committee certain information, which may include
               the following (the actual requirements may vary by state):
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">The results of your aptitude test (General Aptitude Test Battery [GATB] or GATB Form Test, normally administered by the local
                  Employment Security Commission)
               </p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Letters of reference and recommendation from your past employers or sponsors</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Proof of your age (e.g., driver’s license)</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">For veterans of the Armed Forces, a copy of your Form DD-214</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">A record of any technical training you received that is related to the construction industry and/or a record of any training
                  you received before applying for the apprenticeship
               </p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Your high school diploma or General Educational Development (GED) credential</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Once you are in an apprenticeship program, you must do the following:</p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Wear proper safety equipment on the job.</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Buy and maintain tools of the trade as needed and as required by the contractor.</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Submit a monthly OJL report.</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Report any change in your employment status or change in sponsor.</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Attend classroom instruction and follow all regulations for the classroom, correspondence study, or distance learning.</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>