<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="2.1.2 Honesty" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_3_1.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_3_1_2" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>2.1.2 Honesty</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_3_1_2">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">2.1.2 Honesty</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Honesty and personal integrity are important traits of the successful professional. Honesty means more than just telling the
               truth and never cheating or stealing. It also means doing a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay. It means holding up your
               side of a bargain. It means backing up promises with action.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">You should take pride in performing a job well and you should never cut corners. Never lie to clients, supervisors, or co-workers.
               Respect the property of others. Ensure that the tools and materials belonging to your employer (or sponsor), customers, and
               other trades are not damaged or stolen from the shop or the job site. Treat their property with the same respect that you
               give to your own.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Your reputation will always precede you. A reputation for honesty and integrity will make employers want to hire you because
               they know that you can be trusted. On the other hand, if you lie, cheat, or steal, that reputation will precede you wherever
               you apply for work and your career will suffer accordingly.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">If you want to be gainfully employed, earn a good salary, and be well regarded by teammates and supervisors, then you should
               start by being honest. It’s that simple.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>