<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="1.1.1 Early Plumbing Systems" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_2_1.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_2_1_1" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>1.1.1 Early Plumbing Systems</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_2_1_1">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">1.1.1 Early Plumbing Systems</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Archaeologists have determined that rudimentary plumbing systems were in use as early as 2900 BC. Earthenware pipes, masonry
               sewers, water closets, and drainage systems have been found in Mesopotamia (modern-day Iraq) to prove this.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">In 312 BC, the Romans began bringing water into Rome through an <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__aqueduct"><dfn class="term">aqueduct</dfn></a> system, or a system of
               channels used to carry water. Most aqueducts were open, stone-lined trenches that used
               gravity to move water downhill. The more famous arched aqueducts were not nearly as
               commonly used as the simpler trench systems. By 100 AD, the aqueduct system was so
               advanced that Rome built and maintained public bathhouses and fountains throughout the
               city. The aqueducts were also used to drain wastes and discharge them into the river
               downstream from the city.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Archaeologists and historians believe that the widespread use of lead pipe in ancient Roman cities may have contributed to
               the downfall of the Roman Empire. Lead is harmful to the brain, the nervous system, and vital organs such as the liver. Water
               carried through lead pipes may have gradually poisoned many people in the Roman Empire.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">The Romans also gave us the word that we use today to describe people who install and maintain water supply and waste systems.
               The Latin word for lead is <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__plumbum"><dfn class="term">plumbum</dfn></a>, and a person who worked with lead was called a <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__plumbarius"><dfn class="term">plumbarius</dfn></a>. Over the centuries, this ancient word has come down to us as a word you know very well: <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__plumber"><dfn class="term">plumber</dfn></a>.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">During the fifth century AD, the Goths invaded Rome and the Roman Empire came to an end. Roman cities and their infrastructure
               fell into disrepair. Much of the science, math, and technology of the Roman and Greek golden age were gradually forgotten.
               The period after the fall of Rome (500 AD to 1400 AD) is often referred to as the Dark Ages because of the social and cultural
               decline that resulted from this loss.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">During that time, people neglected sanitation and hygiene. They emptied sewage into the streets and did not store or prepare
               their food in a healthful way. As a result, more people died from disease than from wars during those years. Some historians
               estimate that one-third of the population of Europe died from diseases spread by unsanitary living conditions and led to widespread
               epidemics like the Bubonic plague and smallpox, which killed hundreds of thousands across the continent.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">By the mid-1300s, however, sanitation began to return to the cities of Europe. The first water supply pipe was laid in London
               during that time. The ancient baths and spas built by the Romans in England were put to use again during the sixteenth century.
               During that time, plumbing re-emerged as a profession. In 1625, the first apprenticeship laws for plumbing were enacted in
               England. Other countries began to develop water supply systems. A new era of sanitary awareness slowly emerged.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">One of the first known water closets was built in England in 1596 by a godson of Queen Elizabeth I, Sir John Harrington. However,
               it was another 200 years before the use of this invention became widespread. In 1775, Alexander Cumming invented the S-trap,
               the precursor of the toilet traps used today. Three years later, Joseph Bramah patented an improved version of Cumming’s device
               that incorporated two hinged valves. The original is still in use today in the House of Lords in London’s Parliament building.
               In 1848, England passed the National Public Safety Act, which served as model legislation for the rest of the world. The Act
               required every house to have sanitary facilities, whether a flush toilet or an outhouse.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section feature OnSite">
            <h2 class="title sectiontitle">Invention of Flush Toilets</h2>
            
            
            
            <p class="p">London plumber Thomas Crapper has been credited with the invention of the self-contained flush toilet. He was a plumber who
               was responsible for many innovations in his profession. During the late nineteenth century, he was granted patents for everything
               from improvements to drains to manhole covers to pipe joints. Around the same time, the first “modern” toilet appeared: a
               U-bend siphoning system to flush the pan where waste was deposited. Records show that the patent for this device was actually
               issued to Albert Giblin. It is likely that Crapper bought the patent rights from Giblin and then marketed the device himself.
               Crapper also served as the sanitary engineer for many members of the English royal family. Crapper’s association with the
               device may have originated during World War I, when soldiers used his name as a synonym for the toilets they saw as they passed
               through England on the way to the front lines in Europe.
            </p>
            
            <hr class="feature" />
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">The plumbing profession received a royal boost in 1871. That year, Albert, the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII), almost
               died from typhus. Later investigation found that he had contracted the illness from contact with contaminated plumbing lines.
               The problem was corrected before they could cause more illness. A relieved and healthy Prince of Wales was later quoted as
               saying, “If I could not be a prince, I’d rather be a plumber.”
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Inspiration and innovation played a large role in the development of modern plumbing, but so did disasters. In 1666, after
               the Great Fire of London nearly destroyed the city, its citizens organized the first firefighting brigades and expanded the
               city’s water supply system. In the United States, deadly cholera epidemics in Philadelphia in 1793 and New York City in 1832
               spurred construction of improved water supply systems. Earthquakes in California led to the modernization of municipal water
               systems there as well.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">The United States, in fact, has been responsible for many of the most notable advances in plumbing technology as well as in
               health and safety standards. Early settlers of North America brought with them the idea that baths and spas had curative properties.
               In 1652, Boston developed the first waterworks, using wood pipes for both firefighting and private use. In 1804, Philadelphia
               began using cast-iron piping for its water mains. By the mid-1800s, American homes often had outdoor privies supplied from
               wells or cisterns.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">It was not until the middle of the nineteenth century, however, that the United States began to develop practical water and
               sewage systems. In 1857, an engineer named John Adams designed a sewer system for Brooklyn, New York. When it proved to be
               successful, he published his design, and other cities adopted it.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Wastewater treatment, however, still proved to be a problem for many cities. The first advancement in water purification was
               a slow sand filter installed in Richmond, Virginia, in 1832. Scientists later discovered that treating water supplies with
               <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__chlorine"><dfn class="term">chlorine</dfn></a> (a heavy, greenish-yellow gas) would kill deadly bacteria. Following that discovery, cities in the United States and England
               began treating wastewater with chlorine.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="note caution">
            
            <p class="p">Caution</p>
            
            <p class="p">Chlorine is highly toxic and corrosive. It also poses a serious fire risk. Chlorine will react violently with many chemicals,
               including water. Always wear appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) when working with liquid or gaseous chlorine.
               Always consult the material safety data sheet (MSDS) before moving, storing, or working with chlorine.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Despite these advancements, by the mid-1800s plumbing systems were neither complex enough nor large enough to keep up with
               the rapid growth of cities and populations spurred by the Industrial Revolution. By 1855, for example, Chicago still relied
               on individual wells and the Chicago River to support a population of 75,000. Densely populated factory cities in the United
               States threatened to deplete local water supplies and overwhelm rivers and streams with wastewater. The plumbing profession
               had to change with the times to meet these new demands.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>