<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="2.2.2 Youth Apprenticeship Program" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_3_2.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_3_2_2" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>2.2.2 Youth Apprenticeship Program</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_3_2_2">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">2.2.2 Youth Apprenticeship Program</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">The concept of apprenticeship training goes back thousands of years. Over that time, the basic principles of apprenticeship
               training have not changed. Apprentices learn their craft from those who have mastered it. Although some theory is presented
               in the classroom, it is always presented in a way that helps trainees understand the purpose behind the skill to be learned.
               The NCCER training curriculum follows this proven approach.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Youth Apprenticeship Programs allow students to begin their apprentice training while they are still in high school. Students
               entering a plumbing program in the 11th grade may complete as much as one year of the NCCER four-year program by their high
               school graduation. In addition, the program, in cooperation with local craft employers, allows students to work in the trade
               and earn money while they are still in school.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">This training program is similar to the one used by NCCER-accredited training sponsors across the country. With your official
               transcripts, you can enter the second year of the program wherever it is offered. You may also apply these credits to a two-
               or four-year college that offers degree or certificate programs in the construction profession.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">You may become an employee at age 16, but the US Department of Labor (DOL) limits your work to occupations that are not specifically
               defined as hazardous. Hazardous jobs include such things as explosives manufacturing, mining, meatpacking, and power-driven
               sheet metal work. You may work on a project site as an apprentice or journey plumber when you are 16, but only if you are
               enrolled and in good standing in a plumbing apprenticeship program.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">You must be at least 18 before you can legally work in a hazardous occupation. When you have graduated from your apprenticeship
               program, you can enter the industry at a higher level and with more pay than people who are just starting the apprenticeship
               program.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section feature OnSite">
            <h2 class="title sectiontitle">Child Labor Laws</h2>
            
            
            
            <p class="p">Federal law establishes the minimum standards for workers under age 18. Some municipal jurisdictions may enforce stricter
               regulations. Employers are required to abide by the laws that apply to them.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">The Child Labor Provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act forbid employers from using illegal child labor, and also forbid
               companies from doing business with any other business that does. DOL investigates alleged abuses of the law. In such cases,
               employers have to provide proof of age for their employees.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">In addition to the Child Labor Provisions, employers in the construction trades are required to follow DOL’s Child Labor Bulletin
               No. 101, Child Labor Requirements in Nonagricultural Occupations Under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Bulletin No. 101 does
               the following:
            </p>
            
            <ul class="ul">
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Explains the coverage of the Child Labor Provisions</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Identifies minimum age standards</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Lists the exemptions from the Child Labor Provisions</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Sets employment standards for 14- and 15-year-old workers</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Defines the work that can be performed in hazardous occupations</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Provides penalties for violations of the Child Labor Provisions</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
               <li class="li">
                  
                  <p class="p">Recommends the use of age certificates for employees</p>
                  
               </li>
               
               
            </ul>
            
            
            <hr class="feature" />
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>