<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="1.2.3 Protecting Public Health, Safety, and Comfort" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_2_2.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_2_2_3" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>1.2.3 Protecting Public Health, Safety, and Comfort</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_2_2_3">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">1.2.3 Protecting Public Health, Safety, and Comfort</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">The goal of plumbers is to provide adequate piping systems that protect the health, safety, and comfort of the nation. Plumbers
               accomplish this goal in two ways:
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">By installing safe, reliable plumbing systems</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">By properly maintaining and repairing existing systems</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Federal agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) enforce rules and regulations related to environmental
               issues. Laws such as the Clean Water Act and the Clean Drinking Water Act have been passed to develop programs to help ensure
               the enforcement of these rules and regulations. State and local health agencies also establish their own complementary standards
               and regulations that apply to their jurisdictions. A plumber’s responsibility is to follow all of the rules and safeguards
               related to the work. Plumbers should also report any accidents or events that may be hazardous to health or to the environment.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">One of the biggest health and safety issues facing plumbers today is contamination caused by an improper <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__cross-connection"><dfn class="term">cross-connection</dfn></a> between plumbing systems. A cross-connection is an arrangement between a potable water system and a nonpotable water system
               in which an accidental pressure differential between the two systems causes backflow of contaminated water into the freshwater
               system. Backflow can force wastes through a cross-connection. Several things can cause backflow:
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Cuts or breaks in the water main</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Failure of a pump</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Injection of air into the system</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Accidental connection to a high-pressure source</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">When wastewater or other liquids are siphoned into the fresh water supply, they can cause contamination, sickness, and even
               death. Escherichia coli, also known as E. coli, and Legionella (the bacteria that causes Legionnaire’s disease) can be spread
               through backflow from contaminated systems. A safety device called a <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__backflow_preventer"><dfn class="term">backflow preventer</dfn></a> keeps wastewater from entering the water supply system. You will learn more about backflow and backflow prevention later
               in the Plumbing curriculum.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">To prevent the spread of harmful organisms, chemicals, and materials through water supply systems, water is made safe through
               <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__disinfection"><dfn class="term">disinfection</dfn></a>, <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__filtration"><dfn class="term">filtration</dfn></a>, and <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__softening"><dfn class="term">softening</dfn></a>. To disinfect water means to destroy harmful organisms in the water. Filtration is the process of cleansing water to remove
               particles and chemicals. Softening removes magnesium and sodium salts that cause scale on the inside of pipes and fittings.
               You will learn more about these methods of water treatment later in the Plumbing curriculum.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">The safety and health of the plumber is just as important as that of the customer. One of the dangers facing plumbers is injury
               caused by scalding. For many years, plumbing codes have usually required water to be available at temperatures of up to 140°F
               (60°C). The American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE) has found that this temperature is necessary to prevent the growth
               of Legionella bacteria. At this temperature, however, water can scald exposed skin almost immediately. In response to this
               danger, many codes include specific requirements to reduce the threat of scalding.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="note caution">
            
            <p class="p">Caution</p>
            
            <p class="p">Incorrectly sized pipe in a plumbing system can cause the system to work incorrectly and could even damage the pipe and fixtures.
               Ensure that all pipe used in a plumbing system is sized according to the applicable local code. Codes include sizing charts
               that should be used for reference.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         
         <div class="section feature GoingGreen">
            <h2 class="title sectiontitle">Going Green</h2>
            
            
            
            
            <p class="p">As you have learned, one of the most important goals of the plumbing profession is to protect the health, safety, and comfort
               of the nation. Another important goal is to act as a steward of the environment. Water conservation is one of the most important
               environmental issues, and water-conserving fixtures, such as toilets and showerheads, help preserve this vital natural resource.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Toilets consume about 30 percent of the water in a typical household. In 1992, the federal government required that toilets
               installed in new and renovated plumbing systems use no more than 1.6 gallons per flush, or about half as much as older toilets.
               These low-flow toilets have since been followed by high-efficiency toilets that use as little as 1.28 or even 1.1 gallons
               per flush. Advocates of low-flow toilets claim that the water savings from low-flush toilets can save millions of gallons
               a year and extend the operating life of water treatment facilities. Waterless urinals use a cartridge filter containing a
               liquid seal rather than water to remove waste and odor. They are installed in locations where access to a water supply is
               difficult, or when water conservation considerations require their use.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">However, these fixtures must be properly sized and installed to work. When low-flow or high-efficiency toilets are connected
               to DWV systems that are designed for higher flow rates, the systems may clog and overflow, or they may require multiple flushes
               to empty the bowls, defeating the purpose of the fixture. The installation of low-flow fixtures may even require replacement
               of the sewer lines to accommodate the lower fluid flows—an expensive proposition. Contractors report that they receive more
               callbacks regarding low-flow toilets than for any other reason.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Always refer to your local code when installing plumbing fixtures. Read the manufacturer’s instructions and follow the installation
               instructions carefully. Getting the installation right the first time will help save the contractor time and money and will
               ensure satisfied customers.
            </p>
            
            <hr class="feature" />
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>