<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="1.2.1 Responsibilities in the Plumbing Profession" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_2_2.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_2_2_1" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>1.2.1 Responsibilities in the Plumbing Profession</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_2_2_1">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">1.2.1 Responsibilities in the Plumbing Profession</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Plumbing is practically everywhere: in kitchens and bathrooms; at golf courses; in parks; and at municipal sanitary, sewage,
               and water systems. Because the manmade environment relies on plumbing, plumbers play a very important role in society. The
               systems that plumbers install do many things, including the following:
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Make drinking water safe and pure</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Protect homes and businesses from fires</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Help keep basements dry</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Help keep lawns and gardens green</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">The plumbing profession is made up of talented craftworkers who draw on a set of skills that are well suited to the field.
               Plumbers are good at working with their hands. They can use precise measuring and testing tools with skill. They get a lot
               of satisfaction from solving complex problems. Plumbers take pride in their work.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">A plumber must have critical thinking skills to be able to read and interpret construction drawings, review manufacturer’s
               specifications, understand and apply legal standards, rough-in entire plumbing systems, and troubleshoot problems. Plumbers
               must have a firm grasp of basic mathematics. They need to be fairly fit and flexible, because their work can be physically
               demanding. Plumbers often work in cramped spaces and do a lot of work while standing up.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Plumbers need these skills because they perform a wide range of tasks. Plumbers design, install, repair, and maintain <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__potable"><dfn class="term">potable</dfn></a> (drinkable) water supply lines and piping layouts; drainage systems; drain, waste, and vent (DWV) systems; and gas systems.
               There are many professions related to plumbing that require the same base knowledge that a plumber has, including the following:
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <ul class="ul">
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Sprinkler fitters, who install fire-sprinkler and other fire-protection systems in buildings</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Pipefitters, who install piping for steam, water heating and cooling, lubrication, and other uses</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Steamfitters, who install pipe systems to move liquids or gases under high pressure</p>
               
            </li>
            
            
            <li class="li">
               
               <p class="p">Irrigation system installers, who design, install, and maintain irrigation systems for small areas such as residential gardens
                  and large areas such as golf courses
               </p>
               
            </li>
            
            
         </ul>
         
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Plumbers also specialize in commercial and residential design, construction, remodeling, renovation, and maintenance. Plumbers
               can own and operate their own contracting business. They can also branch out into related fields by becoming plumbing inspectors,
               instructors, estimators, or safety managers.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Many plumbers specialize in servicing specific types of systems, such as air conditioning, heating, and water distribution
               systems. They become experts in troubleshooting and repairing malfunctioning equipment. If you specialize in the service and
               repair of specific systems, you will always be in demand.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Whatever their specialty, plumbers work with the latest technology, tools, and equipment. Being a plumber means keeping up-to-date
               on the technological developments in plumbing, on better methods to do plumbing work, on the qualities and advantages of new
               materials, and on changes to the codes and standards that govern plumbing. A code is a legal document adopted by a jurisdiction
               that establishes the minimum acceptable standards, rules, and regulations for all materials, practices, and installations
               used in buildings and building systems.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Most states and localities require plumbers to be licensed as a <a href="M01_topic_4_4_1.xhtml#M01_topic_4_4_1__journey_plumber"><dfn class="term">journey plumber</dfn></a>, master plumber, and/or plumbing contractor. Refer to your local code for the guidelines that apply where you work.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>