<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
   
   <head>
      
      
      <meta name="copyright" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.rights.owner" content="(C) Copyright 2019" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Type" content="learningContent" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Title" content="2.2.5 What You Should Expect from a Training Program" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Relation" content="M01_topic_3_2.xhtml" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Format" content="XHTML" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Identifier" content="M01_topic_3_2_5" />
      
      <meta name="DC.Language" content="en" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../commonltr.css" />
      
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../epubStyles.css" />
      
      <title>2.2.5 What You Should Expect from a Training Program</title>
      
   </head>
   
   <body id="M01_topic_3_2_5">
      
      
      <h1 class="title topictitle1">2.2.5 What You Should Expect from a Training Program</h1>
      
      <div class="body learningBasebody learningContentbody">
         
         <div class="section lcInstruction">
            
            <p class="p">Employers and sponsors who take the time and initiative to provide quality training are willing to invest in their workforce
               and improve the abilities of their workers. Nevertheless, you should take the time to find a program that will train you well.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
         <div class="section">
            
            <p class="p">Select an employer who has an approved apprenticeship program and who is willing to act as your sponsor. The employer’s training
               program should be comprehensive, standardized, and based on developing and demonstrating competencies, not just on the amount
               of time you spend in a classroom. Before you enroll in a training program, find out how many employers in the area use the
               same program. The training program should have a well-defined compensation ladder so that your pay will increase in recognition
               of your new skills and experience.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">The program should be nationally recognized and should provide you with transcripts and completion credentials. As an employee
               in the construction profession, you may end up working for several different contractors over the course of your career. Contractors
               in other cities and states must be able to recognize the experience and qualifications that you obtained through your training
               program.
            </p>
            
            <p class="p">Finally, the training program’s curriculum should be complete and up-to-date. The curriculum should feature the latest developments
               in plumbing techniques, materials, tools, and equipment. The program should also take advantage of modern interactive training
               technology, such as multimedia tools and the Internet. As a plumber, you know how important it is to stay current; the same
               applies to training programs.
            </p>
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
      
      
      <div class="related-links">
         
         <div class="familylinks">
            
         </div>
         
      </div>
   </body>
   
</html>